1. What data types do each of these values represent?
"A Clockwork Orange": string
42: number
09/02/1945: date
98.7: float
$15.99: price

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
A database is used for storing, retrieving, and manipulating data that persists beyond the end of an application process. It also needs to be able to handle multiple instances of access at the same time. A text file would be used for static contents that doesn't need to be manipulated.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
SQL uses a single equal sign for equality instead of double.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
Data is created and stored in a database system through an interface by the user that persists beyond the lifetime of an application. The user can send a query to retrieve data for which a request is made to the server containing the database with the data of interest. The retrieved data can be viewed and/or manipulated.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
Data are stored in a table format that consists of rows and columns. Tables provide structure and consistency to hold data. Each row represents a complete set of data such as information about a particular person and each column stores similar types of data such as phone numbers. Values refer to the actual data of different types such as string, number, etc stored in cells of the table.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
String, numbers, date

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;
     A: I'm looking for date and amount of payments

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
     A: I'm looking for amounts of payments that are greater than 500

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
     A: I'm looking for all payments made to Mega Foods

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
A: SELECT email, signUpDate
   FROM user
   WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
A: SELECT userID
   FROM user
   WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
A: SELECT *
   FROM user
   WHERE userID = 4;
